adding a new  ESC page for the VSCode extension (#14352)
pulumi/docs: content/docs/esc/development/vs-code-extension.md

---
title: ESC VS Code Extension
title_tag: Using Pulumi ESC with VS Code | Pulumi ESC
h1: Using Pulumi ESC with VS Code
meta_desc: Pulumi This page provides an overview on how to use the Pulumi VS Code extension to manage your Pulumi Environments, Secrets, and Configuration
menu:
  esc:
    parent: esc-development
    weight: 2
---

The [Pulumi Tools extension for VS Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=pulumi.pulumi-vscode) allows you to manage your Pulumi ESC environments directly from your editor. This enables you to create and manage environments, secrets and configuration directly within the IDE with rich IDE features.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following installed:

> - [Pulumi CLI](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/get-started/install/) version 3.132.0 or later

Author: fixed

- A [Pulumi Cloud account](https://app.pulumi.com)

## Getting Started with Pulumi ESC in VS Code

The Visual Studio Code Pulumi Tools extension lets you manage your ESC without having to leave VS Code.

## Open the ESC Explorer

From the primary sidebar, open the **Pulumi ESC Explorer** view, and click **login** to authenticate to Pulumi Cloud.

![Pulumi ESC Explorer](/docs/esc/assets/esc-explorer.png)

Once logged in, you will see a tree of your organizations and, within each organization, your ESC environments.

> ## Create a project and environment

Reviewer: You removed the other options, which was creating an environment in an existing project. Both are needed.

Author: fixed thx!

## Create an environment

To create a new ESC environment:

1. In the ESC Explorer, locate your **organization** and **project**

> 2. Click the **plus (+) icon** next to the project

Reviewer: I believe it supports creating a new project as well if you click the plus at the organization level.

Author: got it!

The extension will open up an editor with an example environment definition you can then edit.

![Pulumi ESC Explorer - create an environment](/docs/esc/assets/esc-vscode-add-env.png)

## Edit an existing environment

To edit an existing environment:

1. Click on an **environment** in the ESC Explorer tree
2. Make your changes in the editor
3. Save the file to create a new revision of the environment

Each time you save changes to an environment, a new revision is created. Revisions provide version control for your environments, allowing you to track changes over time and revert to previous versions if needed. You can view all revisions of an environment by expanding the environment node in the ESC Explorer.

## Opening an environment

> When you `open` an environment in Pulumi ESC, you're instructing the ESC to process the environment definition, decrypt any secrets, and resolve all configuration values. This allows you to view the fully resolved environment with all variables expanded and secrets decrypted in your chosen output format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you `open` an environment in Pulumi ESC, we will decrypt any secrets, invoke any dynamic providers, and resolve all configuration values. This lets you view the fully resolved environment with all variables expanded and secrets decrypted in your chosen output format.
```

To open and preview an environment:

1. Select an environment in the editor

> 2. Click the **Preview**"** button in the editor's top-right corner

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Click the **Preview** button in the editor's top-right corner
```

![Pulumi ESC Explorer - deleting an environment](/docs/esc/assets/esc-vscode-delete-env.png)

## Refreshing environments

The extension automatically refreshes after changes, but you can manually refresh by:

1. Clicking the refresh icon at the top right of the ESC Explorer tree view

![Pulumi ESC Explorer - refresh an environment](/docs/esc/assets/esc-vscode-refresh.png)

## Searching environments

To search for specific environments:

1. Click the search icon in the top right of the ESC Explorer
2. Type your search term
3. View results in the panel that appears

![Pulumi ESC Explorer - search an environment](/docs/esc/assets/esc-vscode-search.png)

## Tagging revisions

To tag a specific revision:

1. Locate the revision in the ESC Explorer, by clicking on the expand icon of your environment
2. Choose your revision and click the **tag** icon
3. Enter a name for the tag

![Pulumi ESC Explorer - tag revisions](/docs/esc/assets/esc-vscode-tag-revision.png)

## Running ESC commands in the terminal

You can quickly generate ESC Run commands for execution in the terminal:

1. Hover over the environment in the ESC Explorer

> 2. Click the **add to terminal** icon that appears

Reviewer 2: Is the word "add" in lower case in the UI?

Author: fixed it
